[Music]
Christmas in Bethlehem but it's not like
you might expect it to be no thousands
of people turning up at manger Square in
the city no Christmas carols no
festivities instead a display of
togetherness my Palestinians in
Bethlehem showing they are one with Gaza
the after Liv genocide
Rob separated by geography and Israeli
military checkpoints Palestinians and
the occupied West Bank say they cannot
isolate themselves from gaza's pain it's
too much says artist tar Sala a
Palestinian Christian from Bethlehem he
was inspired to rearrange the
traditional Christmas manger scene to
represent those buried under
Rubble Virgin Mary in the historical
Christmas story is joyous here she is
tilting her head down and the baby is
wrapped in a coffin reminding us of the
scenes coming out of Gaza it's open for
interpretation if you want to imagine
the child being dead or alive the star
in the Christmas story guides the three
wise men to Bethlehem and has been
recreated here but now reflects the
realities of Israel's
bombardment these are the three wise men
who have brought in expensive gifts to
baby Jesus instead they are holding
white coffins this represents the world
leaders who instead of helping people in
Gaza are sending them
coffins 12 months ago it was a different
scene this is T helping build festive
cards for a Christmas parade that tour
different cities in the occupied West
Bank bringing joy to
Children this year people in Bethlehem
want to remind the world their children
are being killed injured starved and
displaced this can be considered the
most silent entrance of the Latin
patriarch of Jerusalem to the Nativity
Church in Bethlehem usually when when he
arrives here this is basically the
announcement of the beginning of the
Christmas celebrations today the silence
can be heard adorning the patriarch
radio journalist George kti says he
wanted to emphasize that Jesus was
native to the land just like them we are
here to pray but also to ask not just
for the ceasefire ceasefire is not
enough we have to stop these uh uh these
hostilities and and to turn the page
because violence generates only violence
and the message of Christmas is not
violence it's peace Palestinians say the
first day of peace will be the last day
of Israel's
occupation nid ibraim Al jaaz Bethlehem
the occupied West
bang make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer